Weekly Reflection
Week 1 – Course Introduction
Not much to report this week. Mostly just making sure that I have all the required accounts set up. I am very excited for this course. I hope to put a lot of time into it and hopefully make a really cool app. I can only hope that I get put with a good group that is also willing to put some work in.
Every semester I find that I fail to get the most out of some courses, because I am very good at seeing what exactly I have to do to get an “A” in that class. So I don’t really understand the principles being taught as much as I could otherwise. That is something that I want to focus on this semester, especially in this class. Android development has been something that I’ve wanted to get into for a while. I’ve taken a glance at it before but I never devoted as much time to it as I would need to to learn it effectively.  So, as I said before, I am really excited about this course. I am hoping it gives me the motivation that I need to really learn Android development. Android will be around for a while. There are times that I will come up with a game or an app idea but that’s where the idea dies, in my head. I want to learn the skills to get those ideas on the phone and maybe make some money off of them in the future. If nothing else I think it will be a fun hobby.

Week 2
After hearing everyone's ideas I'm really excited to get on to the good stuff. This class is the one I was most looking forward to this semester and nothing has changed that perspective yet. I'm excited to get arms deep in some code for an awesome app. I think what I hope most to take from this course is the ability to go ahead and work on apps on my own so that any ideas I have in the feature won't die in my head.
I think this was probably one of the more challenging assignments yet, just coming up with an idea. I think I can usually come up with pretty good ideas, but not on the spot. They just have to come to me as they please. When forced to come up with something on the spot I usually just draw a big blank. I have even been asking around to my non-programming friends to see if they had any good ideas. They did have some good ones but I’m pretty picky and ultimately I ended up going with my own idea.  My sister inspired the idea actually. She’s a freshman on campus and this is her first semester. My parents took her around campus and such and I’m sure she won’t get too lost, but it still might happen, and there’s one thing this generation always has it is their phones. And thus my idea was born! I want to create an app that can show you where the buildings are on campus.  
I discovered that this app already exists but only for Apple products, nothing for Android. So I had an idea, a nice, simple idea. But I still wasn’t happy with that. I started thinking about ways I could improve this basic idea and make the app better. While having a map of campus would be nice, there are more things that this app could do. One thing that I would like to do is have it so not only can you find the building you want but also the room that your class is in. Some of the buildings, especially the older ones, are really confusing and can be hard to find the right room number. So that would be a nice feature. Another thing I wanted to include was the activities on campus.  I think a lot more people would go to these activities if they had a better way to find out about them. This would help educate more people about the existence of fun things on campus. The last thing I thought about was a menu of the foods at the Crossroads. I personally only know of 3 or 4 different things to eat at the Crossroads and I only know a ballpark range of the prices. This would let people know all of the different places to get food, what food they have, and what the prices are. 
Now I feel like I have a really good idea that I hope to expand upon more as I work on it. Well, if I work on it. It still has to get picked by the group but even if it doesn’t I hope to learn the skills I need to work on it by myself later on. 

Week 3 

Group work can be challenging. Even with picking our groups there is an unknown factor of who you will end up with and how you will work together. The biggest challenge of course is simply getting together. Luckily there are a lot of tools on the internet to do this, doesn't make it easy, just possible. I feel that I have ended up in a good group and I'm excited to work with these people.
I am glad that I was ultimately able to end up with Austin in my group, but that means there are still 3 people that I don’t know and will have to rely on. I always shoot for high grades but with this class that is partly dependent on how the group is able to function. But this isn’t something worth worrying about yet.  As far as I know I might have ended up with the best group in the class. And like I said, I did end up with Austin and I know we work well together.
Another thing that I am not a fan of is getting in touch with a group. It is hard to get schedules to all match and mesh well. I’m glad we have things like Google Hangouts and our group community to help us communicate better. It is also super convenient that these are all linked through Google so that I get the constant updates on my phone if something happens or something has a question.

Week 4

I feel like I am starting to understand the way this class works (for better or worse) which has helped to ease the stress a little. It is still pretty overwhelming considering all the different topics we are supposed to be "fluent" at by the end of the semester. 14 short weeks to master 14 topics, some of which I have never used or even heard of before. And on top of that we need to use these topics and build an app, another thing which I have never done before. I find that it is best to just focus on now and what I can actually do, instead of the future and the things I can't control.
When I hear the word fluent I think back to my mission and it took me about 6 to 8 months to feel comfortable in my new language and even longer to call myself really fluent. I obviously don’t have that kind of time here so I hope I can pick up on some of these topics quickly. I only topics I really recognize is JSON and the MVC, and the only topic I already know well is the MVC. So I definitely have my work cut out for me.
As I start to understand the course a little bit more, the more I question why this is a required course. The model for this class is giving a bunch of topics and saying go learn this on your own… why do I need a class to do that? I’ve been learning programming on my own since I started the CIT major. Some classes teach it better than others, for those that don’t teach it well I had to do my own studies outside of class. I don’t think the fundamental idea behind this class is flawed, but the execution is. A hybrid of this class and a traditional “actually teach your students” class would be really beneficial. Only teach certain topics and maybe not every week. There are a lot of things that could be done to improve the class. I hope that some of these things are at least being considered.

Week 5
This class definitely keeps me busy. Finding time to study just 2 or 3 topics a week is a big task but after moving some things around I found another hour each day that I should have to study whatever topics I choose. Another difficulty I found is finding good sources to learn from. The internet has tons of sources for each topic, but it can be challenging to sift through the garbage and find a source that teaches the topic on my level of understanding.
So I’m a night owl anyways so I found that I have a couple hours every night that I usually just watch TV or play a game or something. I like to use this time to relax. With this class however, I need that time for studying.  I don’t mind though, I like the feeling of getting things accomplished and that’s how I feel when I knock off another couple topics. Some nights I’m more tired than others and concentrating on anything just isn’t going to happen, but the other night I usually try to tackle a topic. Although I lose my TV time that usually helps me unwind, I feel like I’m still losing stress because now I’m getting things done. Having work looming over me but no time to do it is stressful. Now that I have some more time it takes that stress off me. 
Finding the perfect source is like looking for the right needle in a needle stack.  Some sources are too complicated and have too much depth. Other sources are too basic and don’t provide enough information. Some topics are easier than others to find good sources because the more common topics have tons of sources.  But some of the less common topics are hard to find sources that teach at the right level. Of course depending on the topic that level changes.  Some of the topics I need explained to me a lot simpler than others.  Even the sources that are given through the course on I-Learn are hit or miss. Some of them are really good while others just stink.

Week 6

I'm finally starting to figure out a system that works for me and I can definitely see better results than what I was doing before. I think the biggest problem with this course for me is that I didn't know anything about it coming in. All I knew was that you "make an app" and that was it. People had mentioned the topics before but never in a way that made any sense. Then you begin the class and a lot gets thrown at you. So it has taken me a little while to readjust to the demands of the class but I'm starting to get the hang of it now.
The biggest disadvantage is not knowing anything coming into this course.  You lose precious time in the beginning just trying to learn how this course operates and what it wants from you. So instead of having 14 weeks to learn all the topics you end up with 12 or 10.  I’ve talked to a few other students in the class and learned that it is the same for them as well. I think this proves that something about the course needs to change. I’m not proposing scraping the whole course, but there are things that could be done to improve it. I know I’ve talked about this before so it’s starting to feel like beating a dead horse but this course is not great for students. 

Week 7

Well, Hibernate is a beast. I could easily see how you could spend a semester just learning HQL, but of course we don't have that kind of time. Sadly, I didn't get as much studying done this week as I would have liked to of get done. A sick baby led to a sick house and most of the week was spent battling illness. Thankfully everybody is starting to get over that now and I can try to get back to studying. There is definitely no time to waste in this class. I'm excited for my group to start on our app soon. We've spent some time discussing the what and how and now we just need to get started on it. I have a good group and I think that our app will turn out well.
Sick babies are no fun, especially when they get you sick. It was not a fun week in my household. One thing that did go my way is my group picked my app to work on. I don’t know it I would have ever worked on it otherwise so this is fortunate for me. Of course the ultimate goal is to learn how to build an app well enough so that I don’t need help anymore. We’ll see if I ever get that good. Even if I do get that good, help is always appreciated.  Somethings I like to work by myself on but there are other things that I definitely enjoy getting help with.
At the beginning of the semester it was my whole intention to work hard and get a strongly agree on all of the topics. However, after looking into some of the topics more I realized that that might not happen. Hibernate is pretty complex and getting fluent in it in such a short amount of time might not be possible for me personally. That doesn’t mean I’m not going to try but I might be willing to settle for an agree. If I can get the majority of the topics at strongly agree and then a couple others at agree I should be fine and still get an A. 

Week 8 

I found this week to be really enjoyable, mainly because we have actually started to work on our app. I definitely found programming to instantly become enjoyable again when I was doing it for my own project, and not just another assignment in school. I got excited when we started splitting up assignments so that we can all bring the app together with our different pieces. It was also interesting to see some of the topics that I've studied so far in the things that we want to do with our app. 
This is something that I mentioned to Brother Tuckett at the beginning of class, that programming just for the sake of passing of assignments is a drag. Now that I’m programming for the sake of something I want to create it is a lot more fun than before. It has been a while since I’ve been able to do any programming and this reminded how much I enjoy it. One thing that is new for me is that this is the first time I’ve really programmed with a group. Mainly because the size of my project’s before didn’t require a group. But I am looking forward to the experience and the challenge it brings. 
It is also nice to see some application to the topics I’ve been studying. I am able to think about how to program something and think, “Oh, you could use threads here” or one of the other topics. It kind of goes back to doing “real” programming. Before I was studying these topics just to pass off requirements, now it feels like I’m learning them to program something, it feels real. 

Week 9

I didn't spend as much time working on topics as I wanted to and with the semester winding down it is getting harder and harder to find the time. Now that the group has started working on the app I have even less time to work on the topics. Sometimes they coincide but not always. So that is one more thing to take care of. Working on the app is fun, and since I have never done any android programming before, even the smallest victories are awesome and feel great. 
Now that the semester is coming to a close so are all of my projects. I would love if this was the only class I had this semester. One could easily keep busy with this class alone. Sadly, I don’t have that kind of time since I have four other classes that compete for my attention. Then of course I also have the app in this class that I want to finish. It is hard to balance time between the topics and the app. It doesn’t always overlap to the point where you can do both at the same time so I have to be careful about spending too much time on one over the other. Usually it’s too much time on the app and not enough on the topics since the app is what I enjoy doing.
Group meetings are going well too. We’ve all been able to help each other with the various tasks that we’ve each been struggling with. Richard had a good idea for the app as well that I really liked. For the activities page we want the map to show where the event is happening when the user clicks on it. I think this was a really good idea, I’m glad Richard suggested it. This also shows the value of planning together. This idea came as we were working on our UML diagrams for the app. Talking through the app led to a bunch of good ideas, this is just one that stuck out to me.

Week 10 
It was a good week. I got a lot of code examples done for my sandboxes and a member in my group had some pretty impressive work to show for our app. I can't believe that the semester is closing in on us. I'm at the point where I feel like we have no time left and still forever. Which is probably a good thing because it motivates me to get stuff done but at the same time gives me time to do it.
I’m really glad Richard was able to figure out part of the app that we’ve been working on. We were having problems getting the RSS feed from the BYUI calendar and into our app. Richard was able to work out a solution that does this. The one thing I want to change is that he had his in a webview, not a listview. I want to put it in a listview and make it go to the map when an event is selected. So another step has been taken but we still have many more. 
It’s crazy how you mind can play tricks on you. I get to thinking about all the things I have left to do for this class and it feels like I need to hurry and get it done. But then I start to think about all the weeks we actually have left and it feels like we still have a while. So my brain is stuck between wanting to hurry because I’m running out of time and being sad because I still have too much time and I want the semester to be over. It’s an interesting feeling. I think the key is to keep my nose to the grindstone and keep working away. It is definitely better to finish early than to be hurrying before the finish line and it makes the time go by faster when you are actually working rather than looking at the clock.

Week 11 
It is satisfying getting one of the topics to work. It is awesome to get several of the topics to work together. I don't know if is because of the points you know that you're getting out of it or what, but I love it when a plan comes together. 
I was pretty proud of myself this week for getting a program to work that implemented several of the topics we are supposed to be learning. Of course the more topics you use the more complicated the program gets. Getting three to work together in one program is quite an accomplishment. At least it is to me. It gets harder and harder to find time to work on things since the semester is coming to a close and I have other projects and assignments to attend to. It is getting harder to find the desire to work on things as well. This is my first time going to school in the winter since high school. Going spring to fall to winter back to back like this is rough when you’re not used to it. My brain needs a break. Of course I’m also looking forward to moving, which is coming up quickly, and to starting a new job/internship. So I have that on my mind, as well as all my other finals. So time gets increasingly harder to find. I know I have enough time, it’s just managing that time well and getting work done when it needs to be done. Being diligent with your time is the true trick. But I guess that has implementations way passed my finals. That is what sets apart successful people from the unsuccessful.

Week 12
I feel like General Conference is coming at a perfect time. I'm getting burnt out and need to recharge, even if there is only one week left of school. This week has gone well and I'm slowly but surely crossing topics off my list. I'm getting close to a grade that I'm comfortable with but I need to keep pushing forward.
It’s only this week that I discovered that I can put the grades I get from Brother Tuckett into the what-if calculator on I-Learn. That is helpful. It lets me know what I can expect to work on and what that will get me. Between getting ready to move and finishing up all the projects I have for finals my time is precious. While I have enjoyed learning about the topics in this class I don’t see a need to do more work than necessary if I already have an A. My goal for every class every semester is to get an A. Sometimes as a class goes on I realize that an A might not happen, but I keep working to get the highest grade I can. So I want that A, no doubt about it, but there’s nothing above an A and therefore no reason to work harder than I have to, especially with other things that require my attention and time. The hardest part with predicting my grade though is that I don’t know how I’ll do on my journal.  I don’t have to get a 100 to get an A in the class but I do still have to do well. 


Final Week
I haven’t really touched the topics this week. Time spent on this class has been spent on the professionalism and making sure my journal is up to date. It is hard to believe that the semester is over. It doesn’t seem like it’ll ever end until it does. I have done way more towards making an app this semester than ever before. The real challenge now will to be to continue to learn so that I can get better at making apps. I would like this to turn into a money-making hobby for me down the road.  I was recently talking to a friend of my about Cordova, a way to make apps using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Since I am much better with web development than software development I am going to look into that and see if I can make sense of it. I definitely don’t want to let go of Java though. It is too popular of a language for me to not learn it anymore. But now I feel that I have a better foundation that I can continue to expand and build on. After the first Java class I didn’t really feel like I knew much Java because most of the semester was spent on programming that I already knew from other classes. The only new part was the Java syntax. But now I feel like I know a lot of new stuff that I didn’t before. So, like I said before, I just need to keep going. Keep learning and using what I learn. I would love to improve the app that my group has been working on to the point where I’m comfortable releasing it to the public, but we’ll see when that happens. 

