This week I am trying to make up for last week so I've done quite a bit.

First I worked on Threads.
I followed a good tutorial on threading. In that one I used threading to find prime numbers.
This work can be found in the New folder in the threads sandbox.
Then I did a little project of my own. I used threads to complete the FizzBuzz test.
The FizzBuzz is a simple test that asks you to print numbers 1 to 100 and 
for every number that is divisible by 3 print fizz, every number divisible by 5 print buzz and 
if the number is divisible by 3 and 5 print fizzbuzz. 
I created 2 threads to run through this problem. 
This effectively runs through and does its job but the numbers are out of order since sometimes a thread 
will finish and start again before the other thread finishes once. So I put the results into a 
treemap. This sorts them according to the key, which is the number in this case, and then I displayed that map.
I was pretty proud of this program.


I also have an HTTP connection example that I created for my sharing video last week.
I forgot to hand it in last week but it gets the network connection and then pulls 
a website's information from the internet and displays that. I've spent a lot of time this week 
on HTTP connections because I've been trying to parse an RSS feed and that requires being connected.
So I have several examples I can show of getting the HTTP URLconnection. 


After HTTP I moved on to Client/Server Sockets. 
I got a pretty simple program to run. The server socket send out a request and gets a response 
from the client socket saying hello. Eventually the server times out but if there was more 
communication it would stay up. 
Like I said, this is just a simple program but I was pretty happy that I got it working. 
 

I also added an MVC example to that sandbox.
In the sandbox is the folder Teny Gasy Be. This is a website that I am currently working on but already has 
an MVC framework. My model is in the model folder. This holds all of the queries for the site and dos the 
actual interacting with my database. The views are in the views folder. This is what the client sees when they 
come to my page. The controller is the index.php file. This is the director of the orchestra and controls 
the flow of traffic between the model and views. This site is a subdomain of another site but you can view 
the site at 'malagasydictionary.trippyrodeo.com'. If I had to pick only one of the topics that I am fully sure 
that I am fluent in, it would be the MVC. 


I also posted a new sandbox for the groups app. Our app is BYU Idaho maps. All the work on the app so far has been 
my own. The app pulls up the BYU Idaho campus on Google maps and gives you the option of selecting a building on campus. 
When you select a building the map zooms in to that location and puts a red marker on the building you selected. The Google 
Maps api also has a nice feature that has the layouts of the buildings' room numbers and floors. Richard is currently 
working on the Activities portion of the app and making great progress with that. When that's done we'll tie it altogether.

















